{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf340
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww20100\viewh18860\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 DATA INCUBATOR PROJECT PLANNING\
\

\b0 Elspeth Ready\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\i\b Project description:\

\i0\b0 \
As a fellow at the Data Incubator, I would want to work on a project that deploys data for predicting crowds at recreational events and locations, such as concerts, baseball games, and amusement parks.\
\
This is an important application because:\
(1) Users care about crowds: they want to avoid delays and long lines, and to maximize their enjoyment of their recreation time (and they may be willing to pay more to avoid delays!)\
(2) Government cares about crowds: they want to deploy public transportation efficiently and avoid traffic congestion, etc. \
(3) Companies care about crowds: they want to maximize profit by providing services efficiently, they want to improve user experience, and they may want to take advantage of advertising opportunities! \
\
Clearly, if we could accurately predict the size of crowds at different events and at different times (under different weather conditions, etc.), there could be significant benefits for everyone. The main challenge for this project is finding good data: most companies (e.g., Disney, ballparks) don't publicly release the attendance data that would be needed for building predictive models of crowds. But there may be several ways to get proxy data freely from several different sources. Some potential proxies include:\
- traffic around key locations (traffic congestion data can be obtained from https://developers.google.com/maps/ or http://www.mapquestapi.com/traffic/)\
- mentions of a location in tweets (a chance to learn and use NLP! Tweet data can be obtained from the Twitter API: https://dev.twitter.com/rest/public/search)\
- traffic cams, security cameras, and web cams (a similar opportunity to learn about computer vision systems)\
\
A specification application of this idea would be to try to predict levels of traffic congestion in the vicinity of Levi's stadium or AT&T park for different (future) game days. Additional useful model predictors, such as weather data (and the team's recent performance!) could also be scraped from the web easily.\
\
To demonstrate that the overall goal of this project is feasible, I conducted an analysis of crowds at two theme parks in Southern California, using data recorded by a redditor (https://www.reddit.com/user/cyiwin) in August-September 2015. In the models I built, I used only time of day, temperature, and holidays as predictors. I used a polynomial regression model (but neural networks could possibly be used in a more sophisticated application). The plotted results demonstrate that even with some very basic predictors we can come up with a reasonable model of crowds! Subsequently, I used historical weather data (scraped from wunderground.com) to predict crowds at the theme parks in the past. Obviously, in a real project, we'd want to use projections or forecasts of future conditions to anticipate future crowds---but hopefully, this will give you an idea of where this project could go. \
\

\b Link to video:
\b0 \
https://www.youtube.com/embed/vCy7PsJlGSM\
}